---
layout: post
title:  "[LeetCode] [LinkedList]: 707. Design Linked List"
date:   2021-05-03 08:27:05 -0700
categories: programming leetcode
---
## 设计单链表
本题也是链表题型中Acceptance比例非常低的一道题，我觉得应该是在index的操作上出现问题的，因为涉及到index操作时很容易出现off-by-one的问题。

[原题在此][leetcode-707]
### 题解

{% highlight java %}
class MyLinkedList {
    class Node {
        public int val;
        public Node next;
        public Node(int val) {
            this.val = val;
        }
        public Node(int val, Node next) {
            this.val = val;
            this.next = next;
        }
    }
    private Node head;
    private int len;

    /** Initialize your data structure here. */
    public MyLinkedList() {
        head = new Node(0);
        len = 0;
    }

    /** Get the value of the index-th node in the linked list. If the index is invalid, return -1. */
    public int get(int index) {
        if (index < 0 || index >= len) return -1;
        Node cur = head.next;
        while (--index >= 0) cur = cur.next;
        return cur.val;
    }

    /** Add a node of value val before the first element of the linked list. After the insertion, the new node will be the first node of the linked list. */
    public void addAtHead(int val) {
        Node n = new Node(val, head.next);
        head.next = n;
        ++len;
    }

    /** Append a node of value val to the last element of the linked list. */
    public void addAtTail(int val) {
        Node cur = head;
        while (cur.next != null) cur = cur.next;
        cur.next = new Node(val);
        ++len;
    }

    /** Add a node of value val before the index-th node in the linked list. If index equals to the length of linked list, the node will be appended to the end of linked list. If index is greater than the length, the node will not be inserted. */
    public void addAtIndex(int index, int val) {
        if (index > len || index < 0) return;
        if (index == len) {
            addAtTail(val);
            return;
        }
        if (index == 0) {
            addAtHead(val);
            return;
        }
        Node cur = head.next;
        while (--index > 0) cur = cur.next;
        Node next = cur.next;
        cur.next = new Node(val, next);
        ++len;
    }

    /** Delete the index-th node in the linked list, if the index is valid. */
    public void deleteAtIndex(int index) {
        if (index < 0 || index >= len) return;
        Node cur = head;
        while (--index >= 0) cur = cur.next;
        cur.next = cur.next == null ? null : cur.next.next;
        --len;
    }
}

{% endhighlight %}


[leetcode-707]: https://leetcode.com/problems/design-linked-list/
